# capstone-project-3900w09aunderthec
Event management system featuring a flutter frontend app and dotnet backend api

## Flutter Setup Windows
The downloads are huge and installation could take a while

- Download flutter and follow installation instructions from https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install
    - Extract flutter to C:\src\flutter
    - Set windows environment variable
- Download and install Android Studio from https://developer.android.com/studio
    - Open Android Studio -> SDK Manager -> SDK Tools -> Check Android SDK Command-line Tools
    - From terminal run flutter doctor --android-licenses and accept all licenses
    - To run a virtual device install Intel HAXM, might need to change BIOS Settings to enable CPU Virtualisation
        - If you are having trouble, disable Hyper V too
- Install flutter/dart plugin in VS Code

Note: pubspec.lock is gitignored as it is auto generated by 'flutter pub get' to manage project dependencies. When running the flutter project locally for the first time, remember to run 'flutter pub get' to build your own pubspec.lock file.

## Running Flutter
CD into the under_the_c_app folder and run the command flutter run --enable-software-rendering

## MySQL Setup Windows
 - Download MySQL Installer
 - Use the Installer to download MySQL Server, MySQL Workbench, and Connector/NET, all most recent releases.
 - Run MySQL Workbench. On the Welcome page there should be an entry under MySQL Connections called Local instance.
    - Click on the local instance, and it should ask you to set a root password. Make it >>   mysql123456
    - Once you are logged into the Local instance, up the top of the screen there is a cylinder looking button.
    - Click on the cylinder to add a new Schema. Call it >>   underthec
- The database is instantiated. Go to a powershell terminal and CD into the \EventManagementAPI\ folder

 - Run:
 -  dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef
 -  dotnet ef migrations add InitialCreate
 -  dotnet ef database update

 - You should be good to go.

 - When the database is changed in future code updates, or if you want to clean it out:
    - Visit the underthec schema in MySQL Workbench and drop every table
    - Delete the EventManagementAPI/Migrations folder in the project directory
    - Then, run the last two lines of code above.